# Dragon Warrior 1

Hey there, and welcome to episode 2 of the Casual Speedrunning podcast. I'm your
host drush211 and this show is meant to give you some high level information
about a different game each week that you might want to look into if you enjoy
speedrunning. That goes for both speedrunner and speedrun watcher a like. This
week we are going to talk about the speedrun of Dragon Warrior 1. We are
actually going to dive into both the SFC and GBC version, bypassing the NES
version which I'm unfamiliar with.

## Small Description

Dragon Warrior is an old school JRPG, which could be considered the RPG that
started them all. You play as the hero of the story in this 1 character affair
leveling up to gain better stats and spells before finally coming up to and
hopefully defeating the DragonLord. This game has a few variations to go with
the first of which is the console of choice. There is an NES version of the game
which I'm unfamiliar with, but also 2 ports, 1 to the Super Famicon, and another
to the Game Boy Color. The Game Boy Color version is the one that I'm most
familiar with running it several times and creating a tutorial for, but the
Super Famicon version is very similar. On top of the console variations, there
are also 2 versions of the run, one in which you defeat DragonLord at level 18
and one in which you defeat DragonLord at Level 17. The level 18 route has about
a 60% chance of beating DragonLord assuming you execute correctly, while the
level 17 version only has about a 5% chance. Needless to say to have a top time
you have to do the level 17 version.

## Why should I be interested?

If you like RPGs, and are a fan of old school classics, then this is a watch you
will likely enjoy. The learning curve is pretty low since there are very few
items and spells to manage, and most of the major fights are fairly simple to
traverse. Another nice thing about the run is that it's only about 90 minutes
for a top runner, and around 2 hours for beginners. It's also pretty easy to get
to a point where you can run it without notes since a few of the areas are
repetitive. There is a bit of grinding to be done in either version, but the
battles do change up a bit since each enemy is different, and also each enemy is
different at different levels. Level ups are a major thing in this game, so you
will see battles start to drastically shift the higher you get.

## Which version to play?

The Super Famicon version has a much better controller setup in my
opinion since you have 4 buttons to utilize instead of 2. For the GBC version
you have a select and cancel setup, where select does everything from opening
chests to checking the ground or opening chests. This might seem like a
convenient setup at first, but the 20th time you mash through a buy you are
going to realize that it has its perks, but also its drawbacks. I would also say
the SFC version has much better graphics if you care about that kind of thing,
as well as less lag on inputs. The games are very similar except for the dragon
loop which is the main grind section of the game. In the SFC version you need to
do 7, while the GBC version has you at either 12 or 15 depending on the level
you choose to fight DragonLord at. In my mind the only real drawback of the SFC
version would be if you had an aversion to playing JP. Luckily the amount of
menuing you do is pretty small, and all buys have the gold value of the item
right next to them, so that portion is really easy. The community for the SFC is
larger as well, though getting info on the GBC version isn't too difficult
either.

## Well great, but is there any reason I shouldn't care?

Well if you aren't into RPGs, you aren't going to like this game. It's
repetitive at points, and it is an older game, so the graphics might not be up
to your liking. The learning curve is small, but that also means a lot of the
fights aren't that complicated so for the most part you don't feel like any run
is different from another. Or it would be like that if it weren't for the major
amount of RNG that goes into the game. DragonLord is known to be a troll, but
you also have some points where you need to re-roll for specific items/stat
boosts, so a reasonable run can turn bad in the blink of an eye. Luckily any
issue you run into isn't likely to take off more than a minute or 2 off your
run, but if they start to stack up you can really get disheartened by what feels
like the game being against you. This isn't atypical for RPGs, but it is
something to take note of.

## How is the community?

The community is great. They've been nothing but helpful with my learning of the
game, and everyone is there to help answer any question you might have. There is
a video tutorial for the GBC version, and a ton of notes to help with either
version you choose to play. They are also active on RPG Limit Break with a
Dragon Quest marathon earlier this year, and with their own tournaments as well.
The community is a Dragon Quest community, so if you like Dragon Warrior 1, and
decide to look into another game in the series, they will also be able to help
you out with that as well.

## What about speedrun watchers?

So I've talked a little more to the speedrunner's perspective, but what about
the speedrun watcher's?

If you just enjoy watching speed runs, but not playing them, this is a game I
would recommend if you enjoy RPGs, and really like to watch full runs. Finding
an hour and a half to chill out and enjoy the run is pretty reasonable, and once
you get to know the run a little bit there is only a small portion of downtime
where you feel like you can afford to look away. The Dragon Loop specifically
is interesting because you aren't really worried about the runner dying, but a
small mistake or bad RNG can cost the runner several seconds which can turn into
minutes if you have a few of them. The nice thing about the grind sections is
that the runners then have time to chat if you enjoy that as well. Since a lot
of the game is spent in the world map the runners have a good amount of time to
interact with chat and answer questions. The good thing about this game is that
there are plenty of runners for it as well. You can almost always find someone
doing a run, especially if they are in the middle of a tournament or practice
for a marathon.

## Who would you recommend this to?

RPG fans, and runners hoping to pick up a beginner RPG. It's a great run to
learn to decide if you will like RPGs as it is a shortened and less complicated
version of what most RPGs are in a speedrun. There isn't any real downtime since
there aren't any cutscenes outside of the opening scene on GBC, but for a 90
minute run with a lot of time spent in the world map you can pretty easily find
times where you don't have to be at full attention. The biggest strength of the
game in my opinion is the community though. Good runners who are highly
knowledgeable and always happy to help new runners get into the game. Also with
more runners and a more competitive scene the game will likely become more
interesting to watch since there will be more races. The biggest weakness is the
massive amount of RNG. As a runner it can frustrate, and as a watcher if you
aren't watching a no reset run you might see a lot of resets.

## Closing

So I've given you some information about Dragon Warrior 1 from the speedrunner
and speedrun watcher's perspective. Hopefully what you've heard will make you
want to jump in and start watching/playing and expand the community, but if not
that's not a problem. I'll try to be featuring a new episode every week so even
if Dragon Warrior 1 isn't right for you, hopefully the next one or next several
will be. I've got a pretty expansive list of games that I watch/play personally,
so it makes sense that not everyone else will enjoy every game I discuss. Thanks
for listening, and if you like what you hear please subscribe to the podcast,
and if you really like it please support me on Patreon. Your support will go to
better equipment and more time that I'm able to spend researching to flood your
ears with even more information about new games to run/watch. Until next time
I'm drush211, and I'll talk to you later.