# X-Men Arcade 6P Japanese Expert

Any % type run on PS3. I'm noting from scratch here, so this can definitely be
more optimized going forward.

## General Knowledge

### Death

The key to a good run is knowing when you should die, and when you should fight
on. Taking on large amounts of enemies is very slow, and even though deaths cost
time, it might be preferable to getting down to the 5 character transition limit
using only punches most of the time.

### Powers

You can do 4 Ults assuming you have the energy token and full health. It's
very important to keep track of the health bar, and try not to get a single hp
taken via attack. I mean that literally as getting 1 hp taken off is the worst
state to be in. 2 means you can go down to 2 hp via powers and get killed by the
next attack. 1 means you go down to 3 hp, and take 2 attacks before you can be
killed. That extra attack can be worth a few seconds, so try to avoid it where
possible.

### Characters

We choose Colossus because of his ability. Everyone has roughly the same
movement speed, but their powers are very different.

  * Night Crawler - Power is unpredictable.
  * Dazzler - Power has a long wind up, and is a projectile
  * Wolverine - Narrow projectile. He'd probably be the second pick behind
                Colossus.
  * Storm - Fairly wide projectile, but very slow. Could be useful for cleaning
            up enemies across the stage, but so slow you could just jump hit
            with Colossus in about the same amount of time.
  * Cyclops - Same issue as Wolverine. Plus fuck this guy.

Colossus has an energy burst that has a radius from where he is standing. It's
pretty large and basically instant. He also has a jump->attack ability that
allows him to go incredibly fast through the air to make up distance.

### Jumping

You should almost always be jumping when moving the screen to avoid attacks.
This doesn't slow you down, but allows you to sometimes be missed when enemies
off screen take shots at you. Do note that Jump/Attacking is not the same thing.
If you are doing a jump attack, the screen will not move forward, so only jump
unless the screen is stationary. A Jump->Attack (where you hammer fist) is
slightly faster than a jump, but will stall the screen transition so know when
to use it.

### Ult Knock Downs

When fighting bosses (possibly any enemy) which ever way you are facing when you
ult them is the direction they will fly. We utilize this to pull bosses to the
left so we don't have to cross the screen, but also we can make bosses fall
forward instead of back which is faster as well.

### Verbage

  * Ult - Ultimate attack/Power/Whatever you want to call it when he kills all
          the things.

## Pyro (Split 1)

  * Jump->Attack and ult this first wave. You can get by here with only killing
    one enemy, but you actually want to cut your health for a later transition.
  * Ult as many enemies as possible to move to screen 3.
  * Ult on enemies coming down on right side to move to screen 4.
  * Ult again in order to move to screen 5. Make sure 5 or less enemies
    left, but leave one with a cannon to shoot you and kill you while the screen
    is moving.
  * Ult again on the right side enemies to move to screen 6.
  * As long as there are 5 or less Green Men you can transition to the Pryo
    fight.
  * **Pyro**
    * He needs 8 Ults to kill. He will always try to jump over you after
      you have powered off on him, so if he is low on health and you are willing
      to risk it, you can try and contain him with jump attacks or try catching
      him with normals after he jumps over you.

## Blob (Split 2)

  * Go all the way up, and a little to the right, then Ult here once the 2rd set
    of guys comes fully through the door. Obey the rule of 5.
  * Ult to clear the entire right side, but make sure you picked up enough
    stragglers to be down to 3 enemies.
  * Ult the right side again.
  * Move a bit to the left to get all the mid-screeners as well, then die.
  * Ult the hopefully congregated group.
  * Ult the right side.
  * Ult the right side again, and you should get to the door with the laser
    machines coming through.
  * Once the laser machines come through you have to clear this entire screen
    before going forward. This includes any lingering enemies as well.
  * Ult to clear the missile wall.
  * Ult as soon as the first sentinel walks through the door here.
  * Ult the right side, then immediately do a jump->attack to the left side.
  * Ult the left side when they show up.
  * **Blob**
    * Blob takes 10 Ults if you use an ult instead of an attack when he falls
      down. DON'T DO THIS!!!!!
    * Instead Ult/Punch Combo/Repeat. It takes 5 Ults if you do it this way.
      Make sure you give him a half second to move towards you so he falls down
      instead of bouncing off the wall.

## Welcome... To DIE!!! (Split 3)

  * Clear out the guys on the left first, then jump->attack to the right and Ult
    them as well.
  * Ult towards the middle to take out as many as you can.
  * Take out everyone on the right side, then move to the flower screen. Take a
    death.
  * Take out everyone with an ult here.
  * Hold a moment, then travel back towards the center to take out as many as
    possible with an Ult.
  * Careful on this screen as if you go all the way right you will get tail
    whipped.
  * 2 Ults to take out the Bee.
  * Careful on the right again, and move to the center to pull everyone in for
    an ult.
  * When guys are coming through the trees, hold off and try to pull everyone to
    the middle for an ult. Screen after is Welcome... TO DIE!!! and needs to be
    cleared out entirely.
  * Take a death if needed and clear out everything.
  * **Wendigo**
    * It takes 10 Ults to take down Wendigo.

## Nimrod? Really? (Split 4)

  * Jump->Attack then Ult and hit everyone.
  * Stay towards the bottom to avoid the leaping lizards, then ult once the 2nd
    sentinel comes through the doors.
  * Give a half second after the shooters come out to Ult the earthspawn as
    well.
  * Stay towards the bottom and ult when the cart with shooters shows up.
  * Move to the top to die to the trolley, then Jump->Attack and Ult the group
    for as many as you can.
  * Ult the bird twice, then keep moving right.
  * Ult the shooters, then die while the elevator is going up.
  * Ult the sentinels when they stop coming, then move to the right.
  * Ult the 4 earthspawn, then move right.
  * Be on bottom to avoid the lizards, then ult when the 2nd guy comes through
    the door.
  * Ult the right side.
  * Die to the next wave, then spawn and kill the entire left. Then jump to the
    right and Ult.
  * Ult the right most sentinels coming down.
  * Ult the right most again, then move to the next screen and die to a
    sentinel.
  * **Nimrod**
    * 9 Ults, and make sure to pull him to the left, then get in position in
      front of the cell.

## Juggernaut (Split 5)

  * Jump->Attack then ult.
  * Ult the right side.
  * Ult the right side, but make sure you get all but the green shooter on the
    left.
  * Move past the green men and ult the far right side to leave only the green
    shooter on the left.
  * Walk over to them and have them hit you to knock you into a screen
    transition death.
  * Spend 2 ults to clean up the enemies here.
  * **Emma Frost**
    * Takes 5 ults to kill, and pull her to the left.
  * Move to the bottom left/right and wander around avoiding the bombs while
    counting to 14 (numbers may vary), then ult in the middle.
  * Die to the trollie then jump->attack to the right and ult.
  * Move right and ult the far right.
  * Ult the far right again, then die to the shooters.
  * Ult the left, then move to the next screen and wait for the 3rd row of
    sentinels to come in.
  * Ult when the fifth tank-man comes out.
  * Move towards the middle and ult when you can clear down to 5.
  * **Juggernaut**
    * 12 Ults, and make sure you pull him to the left.

## Who the fuck is this? (Split 6)

  * Jump->Attack then jump 4 times and Ult the right.
  * Ult the right, then jump in the pit.
  * Ult the the left, then move right and ult as many as possible.
  * Ult the right.
  * Ult the right, then die to the Pyro jump kick.
  * Ult the pyros twice.
  * Ult the far right.
  * Ult the tank-men on the right, then get shot in the back moving to the next
    screen.
  * **Pharoah Bots**
    * 6 Ults
  * **Pharoah**
    * 9 Ults

## Not Mystique (Split 7)

  * Jump, then Jump->Attack and Ult to clear the first and second wave of
    enemies.
  * Ult the bottom right side then move on.
  * Ult the bottom right side, then jump attack to the left and ult to clear out
    the remaining enemies. Try to clear all of them, or if the laser shooter is
    still there try to take a laser to the back.
  * Die, then Ult to clear the grouping.
  * Ult the group on the right.
  * Ult the tank-men on the right.
  * Ult the tank-men on the right, then take a laser to the back to die.
  * Ult the left side to take everything (EVERYTHING!!!) out, then jump to the
    right and ult the tank-men as neeeded.
  * Move on to the sub-bosses and try to bundle them in ults as much as
    possible. The re-boss fights only allow 3 at a time, so take them out in a
    group if possible, but at least take out 1 go get to the next screen. To
    transition to Mystique, you need to be on the last hit of Juggernaut. It's
    also possible to get here with Nimrod alive if you have gotten to the last
    hit on Juggernaut. In fact that is the best way to clear the stage as he can
    hit and kill you after you ult Mystique to 1 health.
  * **Mystique**
    * 9 Ults to kill, and you want to pull her all the way to the left, and
      bounce her off the wall while she is looking at it if possible.

## The Real Magneto (Split 8)

  * **Magneto**
    * 30 Ults, you want to be facing right whenever you ult so that he goes to
      the right side of the screen. Save you a small amount of time for screen
      traversal after death. Also you want to end up to the left of Magneto so
      that he is facing the wall he is going to be thrown against from the ult.
      This saves a small amount of animation time.