# X-Men Arcade

Hey there, and welcome to episode 1 of the Casual Speedrunning podcast. I'm your
host drush211 and this show is meant to give you some high level information
about a different game each week that you might want to look into if you enjoy
speedrunning. That goes for both speedrunner and speedrun watcher a like. This
week we are going to talk about the first game I started speedrunning, X-Men
Arcade.

## Small Description

X-Men Arcade is an old school arcade beat-em-up created in the early 90s. You
get to play as some of your favorite X-Men characters, except for not really
because everyone's real favorite character is Gambit. Your goal is to take down
Magneto and the evil brotherhood of mutants. It's likely anyone who has ever
seen any X-Men show/movie/comic could probably have guessed that was going to be
the case. It's a pretty classic quarter eating game, so deaths happen frequently
and unexpectedly as well. It's so built around quarter eating in fact that using
your mutant power eats into your health bar, meaning that in order to do a move
that takes out several enemies you need to first spend about 1/4 of your health
to do it.

## Why should I be interested?

For one, like any game I plan to talk about, it's awesome, for 2 it is a great
beginner speedrunning game. The mechanics are simple but solid. Inputs are
fairly crisp and as long as your execution is on point everything you want to
happen will happen. That sounds like a small detail, but once you are into speed
running you will start to notice the games that have some of the failed inputs
that can really wreck your runs. It's also a fairly short run, with the World
Record clocking in at 15:01. If you pick up the PSN/X-Box Arcade version of the
game you can also select a specific stage to start on, so practicing full
segments of the game is really easy. Also the resources for this game are pretty
good, with a youtube tutorial as well as fully fleshed out notes and information
hosted in a github repo. That means with one click you can fork or follow, and
it won't take much to get going with your own notes if you even need to. Overall
it's one of the easier speed games to get into just because of how short the
learning process and curve is.

## Well great, but is there any reason I shouldn't care?

Well if you aren't into Arcade beat-em-ups you aren't going to like this game.
It's repetitive as far as the mechanics go, so stage 1 is just slightly
different than the last stage, and there isn't really any great music to cling
to. The audio quality is actually fine for the most part, but the problem is
that the speedrun involves a lot of Colossus just yelling over and over. The
biggest strength might also be its biggest weakness in that it is short as well.
For an rpg repetitive gameplay might not be so bad because the scenery and music
will change every so often, but for this game none of that is true. The music is
slightly different for the stages, but since most of what you hear is Colossus,
it really doesn't matter.

## How is the community?

Ehhh, pretty non-existent. Once the tutorial came out there were another couple
of runners that have come on to the scene, but for the most part the amount of
consistent players bounces off of 1 or 2. It isn't a big enough community to
have any kind of discord or consistent discussion about it, so the likelihood of
finding someone/somewhere to discuss it is pretty slim. It'll be interesting to
see if it ever picks up steam since the resources for learning the run are
pretty good and it's pretty easy to get into, but if you are looking for a game
with a thriving community like some of the Final Fantasy games, this isn't one
that will fit that bill, at least for now.

## What about speedrun watchers?

So I've talked a little more to the speedrunner's perspective, but what about
the speedrun watcher's?

If you just enjoy watching speed runs, but not playing them, this is a game I
would recommend if you enjoy Arcade Beat-em-ups, or have some old school X-men
nostalgia. Once you understand the base mechanics, it's actually pretty easy to
see and understand what good strats are, so you always feel like you understand
the run, and you know that at a moments notice a run can die off, so there is at
least some sense of urgency and intrigue. There isn't any downtime, so you
aren't likely to skip out on a section due to the runner starting the level
grind, or just running across the world map with no real danger. No real danger
of losing those few critical seconds that is, since deaths are built in to the
speedrun, you can also feel confident the runner is going to finish a run if
they get a couple of levels in to it, so it's not too reset heavy. The biggest
problem with this from a watcher perspective is that there isn't really any
variation. There is very little impactful RNG, so it just comes down to runner
execution of the same strat every time. Some people like that, and some people
don't, so comparing to some of the other games you watch should give you an idea
on if you will like this one or not.

## Who would you recommend this to?

Arcade Beat-em-up crowd, first time runners just looking to learn something with
limited time, and people who really love x-men. I do think this is a great game
with some solid nostalgia, it just isn't likely to have a large community and it
can be a bit repetitive for people. The biggest strengths of the game are
unfortunately also its greatest weaknesses with the ease of learning meaning the
game is quite simple and a bit repetitive. It'll be interesting to see where
this game goes now that resources are out there making it really easy to get in
to, but I don't see it being a prime time GDQ type game ever. One of the things
that makes other games intriguing is the community constantly pushing the world
record up, and if that happens to this game there might be more interesting tech
and a great community that comes around to make it hit a wider audience, but
until then I'd say check it out, but don't count on viewing being constantly
available like a lot of other speed games are.

## Closing

So I've given you some information about X-Men Arcade from the speedrunner and
speedrun watcher's perspective. Hopefully what you've heard will make you want
to jump in and start watching/playing and expand the community, but if not
that's not a problem. I'll try to be featuring a new episode every week so even
if X-Men Arcade isn't right for you, hopefully the next one or next several will
be. I've got a pretty expansive list of games that I watch/play personally, so
it makes sense that not everyone else will enjoy every game I discuss. Thanks
for listening, and if you like what you hear please subscribe to the podcast,
and if you really like it please support me on Patreon. Your support will go to
better equipment and more time that I'm able to spend researching to flood your
ears with even more information about new games to run/watch. Until next time
I'm drush211, and I'll talk to you later.