# Tutorial Videos

This directory is meant to house information on how to create tutorial videos to
throw into your youtube channel. The editing software I currently use is
VideoPad, which is a free download. It allows you to both create and upload
clips where you can manage the audio/video separately, and add narration to your
video as well.

## Making Your Video

I personally use OBS to create my videos. VideoPad can work, but I find OBS to
work better for me personally. Audio/Video seems to be a little more in line
with what I want since it is built around streaming and gameplay specifically.
I create videos with only the game audio and video, and mute everything else.

## Editing Your Video

Now that you have a video, you should upload it to VideoPad and create a
sequence. Double check the video for anything that might need to be redone first
so you don't spend time editing a video that can't be massaged into something
useful. After double checking, click the narration option. You can now narrate
alongside your video to add any information you might want to share with
viewers. Personally I'd advise creating a basic script of what you want to talk
about, then stick to it as close as possible. I personally run gameplay only
video, so there isn't a concern of de-syncing from your face or anything. A
script will help even if you decide to Ad-Lib. You want to stay on topic as much
as possible, as drifting can really hurt viewing quality.

## Streaming a Tutorial

So this one is a bit complicated if you want to build tutorial videos in the way
that I do. I try to make sure I have the game audio as backing for my narration,
and I want the game to seem like it's being played in real time and I'm just
describing the situation to you. It gives it a more natural feel, but also has
editing so it doesn't feel like an ad-hoc video. To kill 2 birds with one stone,
I might do part of the tutorial on my stream. The problem is that I then get my
audio from the stream, which is usually not what I want in the tutorial. It also
doesn't make sense to just split the audio as then I have to make a new audio
file with the correct syncing to the video. The easiest way I've found around
this, is to use OBS in 2 instances. Unfortunately you can only capture the
screen on one instance (the stream), but you can capture audio in multiple. This
means that I can just capture the speaker output and sync the audio video later,
since it is the exact same audio. So I just have 2 scenes, one for a tutorial w/
mic, and one for a tutorial w/o a mic. This allows me to build up the tutorial
in my stream and talk to my viewers, while still having a clean setup to use for
polishing off the tutorial later.