# Silver Loupe

In split 1 you have the ability to pickup a Silver Loupe if you are willing to
lose around 20 seconds for the treasure chest that is under water to raise after
pushing a boulder on it. This has been tested and theorized a bit, and I'll give
some reasons that I avoid picking it up.

## What does the Silver Loupe do?

So this item gives you better accuracy (+2), assuming you haven't maxed out the
accuracy value you can by equipping items. This item has a limit in that if you
add it to say a Dragoon's Honor, you will see diminished effects.

## Why wouldn't we get it?

So the pro of the Silver Loupe is that we can get it very early, which in
theory gives us a higher chance of gaining the time back that we spend getting
it. The cons are that we still have to use EagleEye to minimize the randomness
of the run. Adding a Silver Loupe and a Dragoon's Honor for example still
doesn't come close go guaranteeing fierce attacks always hitting, so if we want
that, then EagleEye must still be used.
 
Ok, so what about putting it on a secondary character then? For example what
about putting it on Glenn when Serge is carrying the fights? Well this sounds
great, but the problem is we alternate between Serge and Glenn enough, that this
is now also adding menu time. Also there is no guarantee that we will actually
gain any time from having the Silver Loupe. When we EagleEye someone, we
generally also put Strengthen on them as well, so we are already losing some of
the effectiveness of having a higher hit% since their strength won't also be
boosted. Usually the secondary offense is there for supplemental damage only. It
should also be noted that the Silver Loupe is really only effective until Star
21 (Lynx transition). After that we start doing dual gauntlet w/ helmet on Lynx,
and we put the dragoon's honor on Sprigg. Since we mention up above that the
effectiveness of the silver loupe is diminished by another accuracy item, we are
losing even more of the effectiveness. Instead of the diminished hit% we could
instead use a defense boosting item for example.

Also assuming you get the Loupe, you have now lost 16+ seconds, or possibly a
touch more assuming you have a little trouble with the rock. Add in the menu
time for managing the equips and moving it around, say 5 seconds for a rough
count, and you need to regain 20+ seconds from the extra hit% just to break
even. Also note you need to do this in about the first 2 1/2 hours of the game,
since after that it becomes basically useless. Also, this 20+ seconds has to be
gained back by a single character who has the Loupe saving time in fights. Even
if you save 1 attack per fight due to the Loupe, you aren't getting the 20+
seconds back. You would have to somehow save a round of an enemy attack(s) in
order to make that time back, which is a stretch. You are asking your secondary
attacker, or mage if you want to go the way of ensuring they get their element
grid built up to save you at least 1 round of a fight from the item. While
possible, this seems highly unlikely. Due to this, I've chosen to skip the Loupe
because of its high collection time. If it was only 5 seconds I think there
would be an argument, but at around 20, it's just too much time.